CS 162 Project 1 Final Report


The changes you made since your initial design doc and why you made them (feel free to re-iterate what you discussed with your TA in the design review).


Alarm Clock


In response to this part of the project, Aleks recommended we add an tick end time as part of the thread struct.  While this would have definitely worked, we felt like it was more intuitive for our group to add this field to a custom sleep node struct and use it as part of the sleep list that contained a thread and this int64_t value “end_time”.  This way when a thread wasn’t asleep it didn’t have an end time value that didn’t really add any value. Other than the location of the end time value, all else in the design doc were implemented as specified.  


Priority Scheduler


We received feedback from our TA that the initial data structure we had for keeping track of donations was too complex. Taking this advice into account, we used the actual lock struct and added fields to the thread struct. Now, our implementation is based on the lock’s perspective. We added a field of waiting locks so that we can keep track of which lock each thread is waiting for. Because each lock already has a list of the threads trying to acquire it, we classify those threads as dependent on that lock. As a result, using the already provided lock fields greatly simplifies our implementation. Instead of keeping track of a separate list, we know which thread should have access to the lock next based on its priority. 


Advanced Scheduler


Extremely close to what was discussed in the design doc.  No real conflicts or differences, just much more detail to actually implement.  Design review agreed with our decisions and was implemented as stated.


A reflection on the project - what exactly did each member do? What went well, what could be improved?


Shawn D’Souza - Priority Scheduler + Priority Donation


Kwanho Ryu - Priority Scheduler + Priority Donation


Daniela Kim - Alarm Clock + Priority Scheduler + Priority Donation


Daniel Dobalian - Alarm Clock + Sema/Cond Var + Advanced Scheduler


General Notes:


Our high level discussions on how to approach different problems in the project went very well. However, we likely spent too much time thinking about the project theoretically, and not enough time doing actual coding. We could have scheduled time better, and started coding on the project much earlier. In addition, our group as a whole should improve our ability to clearly communicate and the manner in which we use Git. In the future, the master branch will only contain code that compiles, runs, and progresses us towards passing tests. For work-in-progress code, we will use wip branches.


We also need to review the spec and built in aspects of the code more.  By not fully understanding certain aspects of how the built-in functions worked, it slowed down development, caused many bugs, and required rewriting several parts of code. Overall, better preparation before beginning development should improve that aspect. 


In terms of actual development, using better standards while programming will help reduce bugs and fix errors quicker.  We did not abstract away certain details of the code into helper functions resulting in difficult debugging.  Moreover, the overall look and style of the code could see change.  More comments and better in-dev organization is needed.  Every member needs to have consistent style, and be comfortable with GDB.